okay so
last time we
were talking about sequences
and i introduced the notion of a limit
of a sequence um
so we say that
x n converges to x if for all epsilon
positive there exists an m a natural
number such that for all little n bigger
than or equal to capital m we have x of
n minus x is less than epsilon so what
this definition says
is that
given any little bit of tolerance as
long as i go far enough out in the
sequence the entries are getting within
that tolerance to x okay and when we
when x n converges to x we'll write x is
equal to the limit as n goes to infinity
of x sub n or
using this notation x sub n
arrow x
okay
and so i've said before that if you ever
have
a reasonable
reasonably complicated or interesting
definition you should try to come up
with examples
and negate it so
the end of last time we saw a few
examples of
at least one example of a convergent
sequence
um let's negate this uh definition
because then we'll also come up with an
example of a sequence which does not
converge
and so the negation of this uh
definition is that xn
does not converge to x what does this
mean so this is the actual negation part
if there exists
an epsilon positive so whenever we
negate a4 all it becomes there exists
and whenever we negate there exists it
becomes a for all
so there exists some bad epsilon zero
positive
such that
for all
natural numbers in
there exists
in n bigger than or equal to m
such that
x n minus x is bigger than or equal to
this bad
epsilon naught and distance
okay
so we have a picture that goes along
with convergence we can have a picture
that goes along with
a sequence not converging to x so this
means if i
go out within this bad epsilon knot
and if i go
arbitrarily out in the sequence i can
always find an element x sub n which is
not in that interval
okay
and we use this negation to prove a
certain sequence does not converge to x
but let's go back
to another example of a sequence which
does converge
so
zero
again how does the proof go you have to
verify
the definition of the limit i mean
there's nothing else that we have to use
right now
so let epsilon be positive
and now off to the side over here i'm
going to do a little bit of work
to show you how exactly
in practice one would find such a
capital m or choose a capital m to get
that um 1 over n squared plus 30 n plus
1 would be less than epsilon
for n bigger than or equal to capital m
so
typically how this works is
unlike in calculus where you have some
inequality that you want to
get and then you solve for n
in analysis what's great is that you can
replace that
thing you want to make small by
something simpler and then solve that
inequality what do i mean so i want
what do i want to do i want to find m
so that if
m is bigger than or equal to m then
so i'm saying the limit is 0 so i want
to show
1 over n squared plus 30 n
plus 1
is less than epsilon okay
now i could try to solve this inequality
for n
but this is a quadratic function and
imagine i put a
20 there
so i can't exactly solve exactly for n
uh to guarantee this
but
what's great about analysis is that i
just
i don't have to work
that hard
i could start with this thing which i
want to bound by epsilon
replace it by something bigger and then
find capital m so that that bigger thing
is less than epsilon so what do i mean
so let's start with this thing one over
n squared
plus 30 n
plus one
so this one is only making things bigger
i'm going to do this very slowly
so
this is less than or equal to this
because
for this i've just added 1 to the
denominator and 1 over n squared plus 30
n this certainly looks a little bit
simpler to solve for n less than epsilon
but i can make it even simpler by
dropping the n squared because n squared
is positive so that's only making the
bottom bigger
okay so i have 1 over 30 n and this is
certainly less than or equal to 1 over n
all right so
what does this
computation show this shows that
if one over n is less than epsilon then
this implies that
one over n squared plus 30 n
plus one is less than epsilon
okay
all right if this thing is less than
epsilon then by this string of
inequalities this thing will be less
than epsilon so we choose capital m
so that we get this
okay
now when we actually write the proof
it'll look something like this but the
you know actual style of the proof is is
a little bit
um
different
and if you didn't see this it would just
seem like i pulled this capital m out of
nowhere
um
but this is the thinking that goes
behind it so let epsilon be positive now
i'll tell you how to choose capital m
choose m
natural number
so that so we wanted for all n bigger
than or equal to capital m one over n is
less than epsilon so
uh this will certainly be true if n is
bigger than or equal to m capital m so
that one over capital m is less than
epsilon
and the reason we can choose capital m
like this again where is this coming
from it's coming from the archimedean uh
property of the real numbers
um
okay so
we've chosen capital m now we need to
show that this capital m works
then for all
n
bigger than or equal to capital m
if i look at
1 over n squared plus 30 n
plus 1 minus 0 my proposed limit
this is equal to 1 over n squared
plus 1.
and this is less than or equal to if i
drop n squared and 1
30 n which is less than or equal to 1
over n
which is less than or equal to 1 over
capital m which is less than epsilon
okay
okay um
so so something of a non-example
um let's show that the sequence
minus one to the n
uh
dnc does not converge
not democratic national committee
does not converge
so
so this is just the sequence um
minus one one minus one one minus one
and so on
okay so we have to show it does not
converge meaning for every x and r we'll
show that x n does not converge to x
using the
negation of the definition all right
so
proof so
let x be an r and what do we want to
show
minus 1 to the n
does not converge
to x
okay and we'll use this definition so
uh
this definition means we need to find a
bad epsilon naught
okay
and here's the the kind of thinking that
goes along with this
there's one there's minus one
this sequence just keeps alternating
right so so intuitively there's no way
that
uh every element of the sequence can be
getting or every entry in the sequence
can be getting close to some single x
so what's the idea the idea is that the
distance between
these two guys
is always two
okay
so somehow
um the distance between
uh
every entry or
basically some entry has to be within
distance uh if it's if this is within
distance one
say to a given x
then this will be greater than or equal
to one in distance to x
okay so you can imagine x is over here
minus one is within distance one to x
but then one would be
greater than distance one
uh to x
okay so our bad epsilon naught
was going to be one as we'll see
let epsilon not equals one that's our
bad epsilon so now we have to show for
all capital m and natural number there
exists a little n bigger than or equal
to capital m so that
um
we have that inequality so
let m be a natural
number then what do we see
uh so then this says there exists an n
greater than or equal to capital m
and i will show that n is in fact either
capital m or capital n plus one
then two
which is
the distance between
minus one to the m and minus 1 to the n
plus 1
is less than or equal to now using the
triangle inequality i add and subtract x
and then use the triangle inequality
okay
so i have the sum of two numbers is
bigger than or equal to two
okay
and the only way that can happen is if
one of these numbers is bigger than or
equal to one if both of these numbers
are less than one
then the sum is less than two and i
would have two is less than two that's
not possible so one of these numbers has
to be bigger than or equal to one
and therefore i could take n equal to
capital m uh if this is bigger than or
equal to one or if this is bigger than
or equal to one i k i take little n to
be capital n plus one so that's the end
of that
alrighty so that's uh
that's good for
examples for now
let's prove a
general theorem about convergent
sequences
namely that if i have a convergent
sequence then it's bounded
and let me just give you a
quick reminder
about what being bounded means for a
sequence
i.e
exists some number such that
for all n
x n is less than or equal to capital b
okay
now as
um beginning students of math
you know
what types of questions should we start
asking ourselves
one of those so one of the types
or a type of question that we should ask
when we come across a theorem
that
is
you know a one-way street meaning if
something happens and something else
happens
is does the converse hold namely if i
assume x sub n is a bounded sequence
does this imply that xn is convergent
okay
so if somebody if you ever hear the
words does the converse hold that's what
they mean
now for this statement this is false
if xn is bounded implies xn is
convergent that's false because we have
an example right there of a bounded
sequence
this sequence here minus 1 to the n is
bounded since
i mean an absolute value this equals 1
for all n so we could take b equals 1.
so minus one to the n is a bounded
sequence which is not convergent so the
converse does not hold
okay so let's prove
the theorem and let me draw
a little picture to go along with it
of kind of what's going on
um so here's zero
let's imagine
let me make this picture a little bit
bigger
before i go into the proof
so let x be the limit
so this is not the proof yet this is
just uh
more discussion
so if this x sub n is converging to x
then
let's say i go out distance 1
to x
then all of the x of n's eventually have
to land in
this strip here
so
x sub n
and bigger than or equal to some capital
m
okay
so i know that they're all within
distance one to x so an absolute value
they'd be bounded by
uh
let's say for this picture it'd be x
plus one but um if this was over there
capital it would be the absolute value
of x plus one
so that takes care of all x sub n's with
n bigger than or equal to m and then
there's only finitely many
guys to deal with
maybe there's a bigger one out here x of
m minus one
um
to deal with and and
that's how we define our our number is
by
the
absolute value of x plus one uh plus
these finite the absolute value of these
finitely many and then that would be
something that's bigger than or equal to
every element in the sequence so how
does
that's the picture that goes with it how
do we write
how do we take that picture to proof
so
suppose xn converges to x that's our
assumption
and there exists a natural number m
such that
all n bigger than or equal to capital m
x sub n minus x is within distance one
our x of n is within distance one to x
then
for all n bigger than or equal to
capital m if we look at the absolute
value of x sub n
add and subtract x
and now use the triangle inequality this
is less than or equal to absolute value
of x sub n minus x
plus the absolute value of x equals one
plus x
okay so for all
entries in the sequence past this point
capital m
they're bounded in absolute value by one
plus x that's just a number okay
so then
we just have to take care of the
one up to capital m minus one guys we
just have to find a number bigger than
those guys
and this number
and we'll have found a b so then let's
take b to be
x sub 1
plus x sub 2 plus
x sub
capital m minus 1
plus
this
okay
then
for all n a natural number
the absolute value of x of n is less
than or equal to b right because if n is
less than
capital m then its absolute value is
bounded by one of these its absolute
value is equal to one of these and
therefore less than or equal to
uh one of these plus some non-negative
numbers
and if n is bigger than or equal to
capital m then we have this bound that
we use
okay
and this number is certainly less than
or equal to capital b again because
it's this number plus the sum of
non-negative numbers
okay
now in general there's no like easy
like easily checkable
criterion for a sequence to converge
all we can do is verify the definition
but there are some sequences which are
you can easily check
or or figure out if they converge just
by telling if
if they're bounded those are what are
called monotone sequences
so
so this is in some sense the class of
sequences that does kind of satisfy the
converse of that theorem i stated a
minute ago
so sequence
x of n is
monotone increasing
if
for all natural numbers little n
x of n is less than or equal to x of n
plus one so this means that
x of one is less than or equal to x sub
two is less than or equal to x sub three
and so on
sequence is monotone decreasing
if we have the other inequalities so
things are getting
smaller
x sub n is bigger than or equal to x of
n plus one
okay
and if we have
a sequence which is monotone increasing
or monotone decreasing
so it's one or the other
you say xn is
monotone or monotonic
okay
so
you know it's simple enough to uh come
up with examples of sequences which are
monotone increasing monotone decreasing
or neither so
one over n so this is just
one one-half
third
fourth
this is
monotone decreasing
and if i
take minus
uh the sequence then i get that reverses
basically all of the inequalities and i
get a monotone increasing one so then
this is minus one minus a half
minus the third minus the fourth
monotone increasing and then something
that's not is we've already
come across that minus one to the n
and so on
okay and so
the theorem about monotone sequences is
um
that there's a simpler criterion than
the definition for
determining when they're convergent or
if you like
they satisfy the converse of this
theorem up here
so
monotonic sequence
is convergent
if and only if
it is bounded okay so we proved a minute
ago that convergent sequences are
bounded so for monotonic sequences
converse holds
okay
so let's do the proof of this i'm gonna
do the proof for monotone increasing
uh
sequences and as an exercise i'll leave
it to you to do the proof for monotone
decreasing sequences
so
suppose x of n is
a monotone
increasing sequence
so there's two
directions to prove convergence
if and only if bounded
so we have one direction
meaning
convergence implies bounded this is just
the previous theorem
where we proved that every convergent
sequence is bounded not just monotonic
sequences
so
the meat is in proving the converse
direction and in fact we'll be able to
pick out uh what the limit is of this
sequence
so
suppose x of n is
bounded
okay
then if i look at the set of entries
okay so not the sequence but if i look
at
the set
of values
that this uh sequence takes so x sub n
and it's a natural number this is now a
set
subset of the real numbers
this is a bounded set
meaning it's bounded above
and below because there exists some
capital b so that
x sub n is
um
an absolute value less than or equal to
capital b for all n so that means x sub
n is between b and minus b
okay
all right so
what's the picture again that goes with
this so we have these x sub n's
one x sub two x three we know that they
cannot go past a certain
b
uh and they're
steadily increasing but they can't
keep
strictly
they can't increase without bound so
um
not only that they're bounded by
uh some
number
x which i'll define to be the supremum
of this set
and these guys are just getting in in
essence so this is a picture i mean
me trying to explain to you what's going
on
if x is the
soup of this
set of entries
then what do i know about x sub n
i mean x
is that if i go a little bit to the left
of x so let me draw this again
so okay so let me uh let me back up a
minute here
so since the set is bounded in r
it has a supremum in r
and what i claim is that this supremum
is in fact the limit of this sequence
okay this is a supremum of a set
i'm saying it's the limit of the
sequence so what's the what's the
thinking here
um so x is the supremum of all the
entries in x sub n so nothing's ever
going to be bigger than
uh
some tolerance x plus epsilon so we just
need to worry about what's to the left
of it
and we need to find a capital number m
so that all the x of n's are in this
this
interval here
okay
because we're trying to show that
we're trying to show that the extra
bends converge to x the supremum of this
guy so let's walk through this
by this picture so x is the supremum
nothing's bigger
than x so all of the x of n's are to the
left of x plus epsilon so now we just
need to worry about x minus epsilon
now since x is the supremum of this set
x minus epsilon can't be an upper bound
for the set of entries of x sub n so
that means there has to exist some
x sub m
so that it's bigger than x minus epsilon
but now this is where we use the fact
that this is a monotone increasing
sequence
because then if n is bigger than or
equal to capital m then x sub n is
strictly to the right of
x sub m or it's equal to x sub n
and still less than or equal to x
because x is the supremum of all the
entries
so then for n bigger than or equal to
capital m they all have to lie in this
interval and that's why the
sequence converges to the supremum of
this set so we're using
um in a crucial way this the fact that
this uh sequence is monotonic increasing
so to prove this claim let epsilon be
positive
then
since x minus epsilon is not
an upper bound for
this set x sub n
there exists an m naught
natural number so that
x of n minus epsilon is less than x sub
m naught
is less than or equal to x
and we'll choose
m to be this m naught
then
for all n bigger than or equal to m we
have x sub n
minus epsilon which is less than x sub
m naught and because n is bigger than or
equal to capital m and this is a
monotone increasing sequence x sub m
naught is less than or equal to x sub n
and because x is a supremum of
of um
the set of all entries of this sequence
this is less than or equal to x
which is less than
x plus epsilon
or to summarize so this should not be x
sub n that should be x minus epsilon
or
x minus epsilon is less than x of n is
less than
x plus epsilon and that's the same as
showing the absolute value of x of n
minus x is less than epsilon
okay
now what's the change for
monotone decreasing is that
we'll be able to identify
the
limit of the sequence as being the imph
the enthemum of this set
all right but i'll leave that to you as
an exercise
so let's use this real quick to uh prove
the limit of a
little bit more interesting sequence
than
you know one over
this one which
it's reasonably interesting i guess but
you know typically in math we just don't
prove
theorems for the sake of proving
theorems
typically there's some concrete
um
reason we do things
there's some concrete sequence we're
trying to prove converges or
has a certain property
or doesn't have a certain property
and
so kind of the basic one is
if you like a geometric sequence so
if c
is a positive number between zero and
one
then
we'll prove that
this sequence c to the n is convergent
and it converges to zero
and we'll prove as c if c is bigger than
one
then the sequence c to the n
is unbounded in particular it can't
converge
okay
so let's do um
let's go in reverse order let's prove
that uh
if c is bigger than one then this thing
is unbounded
it doesn't require one but it's shorter
than one and we can go ahead and do it
um and we'll use this fact that we
proved um i think in the first lecture
uh or first or second lecture using
induction
so
what does it mean to show something is
unbounded again we get to use our
negation skills
it means that so what do we want to show
for all
uh b
bigger than or equal to zero
there exist an n
natural number
so that
c to the n is
bigger than b
okay
okay now how are we going to find this
in
this seems like a complicated thing
so
let's replace it by something simpler
again this is analysis which means
we get to use our wits and try to
replace complicated things by simpler
things and work with the simpler things
so let me do a little bit of again this
is off to the side kind of how would one
thing through this
if you look at c to the n remember we
have this inequality from
uh infinite time ago that
one that as long as x is bigger than or
equal to
minus 1 then i get 1 plus x to the n
is bigger than 1 plus n times x
okay for all natural numbers n
okay so that means c to the n
which is equal to 1 plus c minus 1
to the n so this is my x is bigger than
or equal to
1 plus n times c minus 1
which is bigger than or equal to n times
c minus 1.
you see so if i want to make if i want
to make this big it suffices to make
this big
okay
so that's how that's what i'll do
so
um
let n be a natural number
such that
n is bigger than
b over c minus one
okay
then now this we did off to the side
we'll just put in the proof now
and c to the n equals 1 plus
1 minus c
to the n
is bigger than or equal to 1 plus n
times c minus 1 which is bigger than or
equal to n
times c minus 1 which is
bigger than b
over c minus 1 times c minus 1 equals b
okay
okay so now let's prove uh
the first claim that if c is between
zero and one then the limit as n goes to
infinity of c to the n equals zero
so first i want to prove uh the
following claim that we in fact have a
decreasing sequence
uh which is bounded below by
um
zero so
claim
for all n 0 is less than c to the n is
less than
i should say c to the n plus 1
is less than c to the n
okay
so the proof of this claim is a very
simple induction argument so we'll do
this by induction so we have the base
case
n equals one
so
we are assuming that
c is between zero and one
and if i multiply through by c
i conclude that zero is less than c
squared is less than c
and that's the n equals one case
and the inductive step
i mean is essentially the same proof
suppose
0 is less than c
to the n plus 1 is less than c to the m
then multiplying through by c
we get that
0 is less than c to the m
plus 2 is less than
c to the n plus one which is n equals n
plus one
okay here we're using
uh this fact here okay that c is
positive so it doesn't flip the
inequalities
so i can multiply through and preserve
the inequalities
okay so
this shows that
that this sequence is
monotone
decreasing and it's bounded below by
zero
and in fact bounded because
bounded
because c to the n an absolute value
these are all positive it's equal to c
to the n
and
c to the n is less than c to the n minus
1 which is less than c to the n minus 2
so on and so on
which is less than c
so
uh it's bounded
um
i guess i could have built that into
this inequality and proved that as well
but um that's okay
so it has a limit so by
by the previous theorem
has a limit
and i'll call it l
and now what i want to show is that l is
zero
and how we'll do that is
um one of uh
these analysis tricks where are not
really tricks but rather than show is l
is directly equal to 0 we'll show that
the absolute value of l is less than
epsilon for every epsilon positive and
therefore it has to be zero because it's
just a fixed number
um
so let epsilon be positive again we're
going to show that the absolute value of
l which is just a fixed number is less
than epsilon
and therefore capital
l has to be zero
then
there exists
since this sequence converges
an m a natural number
such that for all n
bigger than or equal to capital m
c to the n minus l
is less than
1 minus c times epsilon
over 2.
now maybe you're wondering
why i chose uh why why didn't i just use
epsilon here well in the end
it's just going to come out to
this being less than epsilon an absolute
value otherwise i would have come out
with less than epsilon times some number
and i did away with that number by
choosing a different number here
so
now we compute
that if i look at
1 minus c times the absolute value of l
this is equal to l minus c times l
and this is less than or equal to
l minus
c to the capital m
plus uh
let's put a plus one plus c to the m
plus one
minus c to the l
and by the triangle inequality this is
less than or equal to l minus c to the
n plus one plus
now c to the n plus 1 minus c to the l
so i can pull out a c which is positive
so i can get
l
okay now
n plus 1 is bigger than m
so it satisfies this inequality
and so does this one
okay
and therefore this is less than
epsilon over two times one minus c
plus c times
epsilon over two times one minus c and
this is less than so c is less than 1 so
this whole thing is less than epsilon
over 2 times 1 minus c plus another
epsilon over 2 so i get epsilon over 2
times 1 minus c
and thus
the absolute value of l is less than
epsilon
and since epsilon was arbitrary that
implies the absolute value of l is equal
to zero ie
l is equal to zero
okay so that's a
very concrete
um application of some of these theorems
we've been proving which is really
though
i think the only real reason one proves
theorems is
you typically have a
concrete
example of something in mind that you
want to study
but in order to study it
often requires some
general machinery
i.e theorems
all right so now we'll
talk a little bit about sequences
obtained from
other sequences um
so these are called subsequences
or sequence is obtained from
a single sequence
so what do i mean by this let me give
you the the precise definition
so we start off with
a sequence
and a increasing sequence of integers
n sub k
so
let me just say what what this means
rather than write out the word and then
say what it means
so this is
the sequence of
natural numbers
which are strictly increasing n sub 1 is
less than n sub 2 is less than n sub 3
and so on
the new sequence
x sub
n sub k so now the index is not n
but the index is k
is called a
subsequence
of the original sequence x sub n
all right so how should you view
subsequences of a sequence
you should think
that i line up all the entries of x of
my original sequence x sub n
and then i just start
uh picking entries
out of the sequence so
um
but every time i make a choice i have to
move to the right and make another
choice
okay that's that's
what i was just saying there expresses
this condition that um
this sequence of natural numbers is
increasing so i pick an entry in the
sequence
that's going to be my first guy
the first element of my new subsequence
and then i move to the right
and
maybe i pick the next one maybe i pick
one three down i pick that one and then
i move to the right of that one
and pick a new one
and then i move to the right of that one
and pick another one
okay so if you want to generate a
subsequence from an original sequence
you
how do you think about this again line
them all up start picking entries but
every time you pick an entry you have to
move to the right and pick in order to
pick your next entry
okay
so let me give you some examples and
non-examples
so for example if
our sequence our original sequence is
one
two three four five
six
and so on
uh
what would be examples of some
subsequences
the odd numbers 1 3
five seven
nine and so on
um
you see how i'm taking the original
sequence so this is
x sub n i'm taking
i'm just picking entries from the
original sequence but every time i pick
an entry i i move to the right and pick
a new one so i picked one now i get to
choose anything to the right of that i
pick three now i have to choose i can
choose anything to the right of that
so in the language of this definition
the increasing
sequence of integers is just the odd
integers so
2k minus 1. so here
x of n is equal to just n
okay
i could pick
another subsequence would be uh the
sequence of even numbers 2 4 6
10.
all right this is a subsequence of this
original sequence here the increasing
sequence of integers is 2k
i could pick uh
the subsequence could be the sequence of
prime numbers 2 3
7 11
and the increasing
yeah so i don't have a general formula
for that
good luck finding one
but we'll just write this as
kth prime number
okay
now what would
not be an example so these are examples
of subsequences
not examples of subsequences would be
for example the sequence 1 1 1 1
1. this is not a subsequence of this
original sequence okay
remember i have i have a sequence of
natural numbers which is increasing
and x sub n sub k
means that this new sequence is obtained
from the old one by picking entries by
picking an entry moving to the right
picking the next entry moving to the
right and picking the next entry
here
in order to get this sequence from this
one i just stay on the first entry and
keep picking it but that's
not how a subsequence is defined
okay
so here if you like this would mean n
sub k
is equal to one
for all k and this is not a strictly
increasing sequence of natural numbers
uh or one one
three three
five five and so on that's also not so
these are
not
subsequences of the original sequence
given here
okay
so i hope that's clear um
now
um
i'm not saying i want to emphasize this
i'm not saying
that
the number you pick
time has to be different from the number
you picked
before meaning the value
okay
you couldn't have one one one one as
a subsequence of this guy because one is
only in the first entry you can't keep
picking
one entry you have to pick an entry and
move to the next
entry or the or one after that and pick
that entry
to obtain your sequence but that doesn't
necessarily mean
that those
actual numbers in those entries have to
be different so for example if i look at
the sequence
minus 1 1
minus 1
minus 1.
1 meaning x of n is equal to minus 1 to
the n
then a perfectly good subsequence is
given by
minus 1 minus 1 minus 1
minus one
where okay so it looks like i'm just
picking one of the entries but really
i'm not here
the increasing sequence of what i'm
doing here to get this new sequence i
pick the first entry then i pick the
third then i pick the fifth then i pick
the seventh so
n sub k equals two k minus one
all right so all the actual numbers
appearing in the sequence are the same
but i'm actually picking
different
uh
entries from the original sequence
all right where they appear so this is
also fine so is one one one one one
this is nk equals two times k so these
are all good sub uh sub sequences so
these were subsequences of
oops
of the original sequence
these are subsequences of
uh this sequence
so
[Applause]
all right so from a given sequence we
obtain
a new we we can obtain new sequences
from this uh original sequence
in this way
so a natural question is to ask
how does
going from a sequence to a subsequence
you know of not react but
behave with respect to limits okay if
the original sequence converges to a
limit
does a subsequence or does every
subsequence converge to that limit as
well
and this shouldn't come as a surprise
that that it does because
you know all of the elements of the
sequence are getting close all the
entries of the sequence are getting
close to a given number
and a subsequence is just if you like
picking certain ones along the way
so
certainly if i'm in a subsequence then
as long as i'm far enough out in the
subsequence i'll be close to that limit
as well all right so if you didn't get
all that rambling um
i'll
go ahead and state the theorem and prove
it
xn is a sequence which converges
to x
and x of n sub k is
a subsequence of
x of n
then
uh the subsequence converges to x as
well
limit as k goes to infinity of x sub n
sub k
equals x
okay
all right so
um let me just start off by making a
simple observation based on the fact
that this increasing sequence
that the n sub k's are an increasing
sequence of natural numbers
since
n sub 1 is bigger than or equal to 1 is
less than n sub 2 is less than n sub 3.
so on
this implies that
for all k
natural number
n sub k
is bigger than or equal to k
all right
um so this is not so hard to believe
because n sub 1 has to be at least
bigger than one n sub 2 has to be at
least bigger than n sub 1 so it's either
n sub 1 plus 1 or bigger
and therefore you know you get by a
simple induction argument which i'll
leave to you you can prove that for all
k a natural number
n sub k is bigger than or equal to k
the induct on uh k
all right
so we want to prove that this sequence
converges to x and we're going to do
that using the only means we have so
this is just some arbitrary subsequence
of x sub n all we have is the definition
to use
so we're going to now prove this so we
have to show for all epsilon positive
blah blah blah so the first thing we
have to do is let epsilon be positive
now we'll use the fact that x sub n
converges to x
sub x n converges to x
there exists a natural number
m
not
such that for all n bigger than or equal
to m naught
um
x sub n minus x absolute value is less
than epsilon
okay
this m sub not we'll choose for our
subsequence
choose m to equal m sub naught
so now we need to show that this capital
m works for our subsequence meaning if k
is bigger than or equal to capital m
then
x of n sub k minus x is uh
an absolute value less than epsilon but
this just follows from from this fact
right so
then if k
is bigger than or equal to m this
implies
by this inequality
n sub k is bigger than or equal to m
which remember is equal to m sub naught
so n sub k is some integer
so natural number bigger than or equal
to m sub naught
so that implies by this inequality that
x of n sub k
minus x an absolute value is less than
epsilon
okay